+++
title = "Improving Zero-Shot Translation of Low-Resource Languages"
date = 2017-12-01T00:00:00

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Surafel M. Lakew", "Quintino F. Lotito", "Matteo Negri", "Marco Turchi", "Marcello Federico"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference paper
# 2 = Journal article
# 3 = Manuscript
# 4 = Report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book section
publication_types = ["1"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "In *Proceedings of the 14th International Workshop on Spoken Language Translation (IWSLT 2017)*"
publication_short = "In *IWSLT 2017*"

# Abstract.
abstract = "Recent work on multilingual neural machine translation reported competitive performance with respect to bilingual models and surprisingly good performance even on (zeroshot) translation directions not observed at training time. We investigate here a zero-shot translation in a particularly low-resource multilingual setting. We propose a simple iterative training procedure that leverages a duality of translations directly generated by the system for the zero-shot directions. The translations produced by the system (sub-optimal since they contain mixed language from the shared vocabulary), are then used together with the original parallel data to feed and iteratively re-train the multilingual network. Over time, this allows the system to learn from its own generated and increasingly better output. Our approach shows to be effective in improving the two zero-shot directions of our multilingual model. In particular, we observed gains of about 9 BLEU points over a baseline multilingual model and up to 2.08 BLEU over a pivoting mechanism using two bilingual models. Further analysis shows that there is also a slight improvement in the non-zero-shot language directions."

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "https://arxiv.org/pdf/1811.01389.pdf"
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = "files/poster_improving_zeroshot_translations.pdf"
url_source = ""

# Summary. An optional shortened abstract.
summary = "We investigate here a zero-shot translation in a particularly low-resource multilingual setting."

# Digital Object Identifier (DOI)
doi = ""

# Is this a featured publication? (true/false)
featured = false

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = ["Deep Learning", "NLP", "NMT"]

# Does this page contain LaTeX math? (true/false)
math = true
+++

##### Best student paper award
